---
layout: post
title:  "Data Model"
section: 2.0.0
date: 01-01-07
---

Currently, the data model is built around two main models, the Tool and the ToolVersion. A Tool describes one pairing of a tool and one Docker image. A ToolVersion describes a particular iteration of a tool as fixed by a reference to a specific image id, a Dockerfile (which was used to build an image) as fixed by a URL, and a descriptor for the tool in either CWL or WDL.

## Design Decisions

We are starting with a read-only API due to potentially different views and approaches to registration/security.

Multiple formats for descriptors such as [CWL](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/common-workflow-language) and [WDL](https://github.com/broadinstitute/wdl) are permitted. 

Tools should have a globally unique identifier which identifies the authoritative source for a tool (ex: 123456323@agora.broadinstitute.org )

The entire schema is shown below, but a more useful form is the Swagger editor to view our [schema in progress](http://editor.swagger.io/#/?import=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ga4gh/tool-registry-schemas/develop/src/main/resources/swagger/ga4gh-tool-discovery.yaml) 

Note that the swagger editor itself can kickstart a project by generating servers and clients in a variety of languages.

{% gist denis-yuen/5c0e8fc356ceace85c72 %}

## Outstanding Questions

* How do we track authorship? Should we track authorship of the tool metadata, the Docker image, or the underlying algorithm, or all of above?
* What do we need to provide to allow for indexing and external services like an external sparql service.
* Versioning
* Terminology discussion (do we describe triples separately from tools? should we describe them as aggregations of tools for just the case that CWL documents have more than one tool? etc.)
